# MagnetSearch
A search for magnetosensitive neurons

## Introduction

Many disparate species of animals are capable of using the Earth’s
magnetic field for orientation and navigation. However, the mechanisms
by which information about magnetic fields enters the nervous system
remain unknown. Indeed, to our knowledge, no neural correlate of
magnetoreception has been reported to date.

## Our study

We aim to collect activity from as many brain areas from as many
different species as possible, recorded while the animal was exposed
to changing magnetic fields. In this way, we hope to discover the
first neural circuits that respond to magnetic fields.

## Participate!

We need your help! If, in the course of your work, you record neural
activity—any brain area, any species, any recording modality—you can
join our search. All you need to do is devote a few minutes after the
end of your regular experimental session and continue recording from
the neurons you are already recording from, while presenting magnetic
stimuli using a device we will send you. Then, you perform the same
basic analysis on the recording you would anyway (spike sorting, ROI
identification, etc.), and send us the results. We will then further
analyze the data. With luck, the collective efforts of the search
participants will yield evidence of neuronal traces of
magnetoreception, and we can collectively publish an exciting
paper. And if not, we will publish our negative results together.

If you are potentially interested, please first read our
[Collaboration
plan](https://github.com/citneuro/magnetsearch/raw/main/MagnetSearch.pdf),
then fill out the [Participation
form](https://forms.gle/veeA6HLHHdt7KUTe7).

## More information

For an example of how we are currently thinking about data analysis, there is a [Technical paper on spectral analysis](https://github.com/citneuro/magnetsearch/raw/main/Technical-Report-211110.pdf).

Also, feel free to reach out directly to [Daniel Wagenaar](mailto:daw@caltech.edu) or [Markus Meister](mailto:meister@caltech.edu).
